Transcription:
 Hi, I'm Eindhoven Mossavat, and today's episode, I'm joined by Dr. Deep Dick Royers, a senior researcher at the AI lab at Frei University at Prasal, to discuss how AI can be balanced, pragmatic, and grounded. So what are your hopes about AI's future, actually? So first of all, I think that we can build AI systems that can really supplement us. We have, uh, as people we have many talents, but we can definitely strengthen some of our sites, like for example, diagnostically number crunching, I think medicine could probably have a huge boost for my AI systems. I think traffic can be safer. I think the environment can be, can be healthier. We can live in more sustainable society, and AI systems, I think will be a core component of, of getting two those, two those objectives. So what I hope is that we will really have AI systems that can strengthen society as a whole. I am very explicitly not a transhumanist. So transhumanism is where you think that ultimately humanity will cease to be and AI systems will take over. I sincerely hope not, but I really want a future in which we have AI systems that help us be better. And there's so much planning and computational power in AI and also now also generative powers that can really change society for the better. And in order to do that, I think that as a society, we can have a conversation about it and we can reset aims and goals for which we want to, or how we want to deploy AI and also what autonomy we should transfer to systems. So I think that's a key question. I might be a bit on the conservative side as it's okay if we can need AI to be very quickly responsive, for example. Or we can need AI to to date a crunch a lot. But then that second part doesn't need to need to mean that we have to over autonomy to it. So it can definitely be so I would prefer that AI systems are for the largest part used as decision support systems rather than autonomous systems. So to supplement humans to augment humans and to replace them basically. Definitely. If I hear you're right, you're hopeful that they are net societal impact is positive. But it really depends on conscious choices we are going to make about it. Yes. And take ownership of its deployment and don't just say this is in the hands of experts or companies or businesses to decide how AI should be deployed. We as a society should be vigilant and have an opinion about it should be thinking about this. That's your position basically. Yes. And I also think that is happened before. So I think we have very good parallels in history where we had major technical revolutions that started out as private projects for a few people. And then later we regulated the effects like for the printing press it was very suddenly became very easy to spread all kinds of propaganda. And we still that we can we can regulate it. We can we can really get process industrial revolution. We we change society accordingly. Right. So we really adapted to work together with society to create a better society. And so I think that Yeah. So so the time to take public ownership of of these new technologies is also here to an into a Spotify radio for brain port or radio podcasts that I see you.

Timestamps:
Start: 0:00:00, End: 0:00:12., Text:  Hi, I'm Eindhoven Mossavat, and today's episode, I'm joined by Dr. Deep Dick Royers, a senior researcher at the AI lab at Frei University at Prasal, to discuss how AI can be balanced, pragmatic, and grounded.
Start: 0:00:13, End: 0:00:15., Text:  So what are your hopes about AI's future, actually?
Start: 0:00:16., End: 0:00:29., Text:  So first of all, I think that we can build AI systems that can really supplement us. We have, uh, as people we have many talents, but we can definitely strengthen some of our sites, like for example,
Start: 0:00:29., End: 0:00:37., Text:  diagnostically number crunching, I think medicine could probably have a huge boost for my AI systems. I think traffic can be safer.
Start: 0:00:37., End: 0:00:48., Text:  I think the environment can be, can be healthier. We can live in more sustainable society, and AI systems, I think will be a core component of, of getting two those, two those objectives.
Start: 0:00:49., End: 0:00:58., Text:  So what I hope is that we will really have AI systems that can strengthen society as a whole. I am very explicitly not a transhumanist.
Start: 0:00:58., End: 0:01:10., Text:  So transhumanism is where you think that ultimately humanity will cease to be and AI systems will take over. I sincerely hope not, but I really want a future in which we have AI systems that help us be better.
Start: 0:01:11., End: 0:01:21, Text:  And there's so much planning and computational power in AI and also now also generative powers that can really change society for the better.
Start: 0:01:21., End: 0:01:37., Text:  And in order to do that, I think that as a society, we can have a conversation about it and we can reset aims and goals for which we want to, or how we want to deploy AI and also what autonomy we should transfer to systems.
Start: 0:01:37., End: 0:01:48., Text:  So I think that's a key question. I might be a bit on the conservative side as it's okay if we can need AI to be very quickly responsive, for example.
Start: 0:01:49., End: 0:02:07., Text:  Or we can need AI to to date a crunch a lot. But then that second part doesn't need to need to mean that we have to over autonomy to it. So it can definitely be so I would prefer that AI systems are for the largest part used as decision support systems rather than autonomous systems.
Start: 0:02:08., End: 0:02:20., Text:  So to supplement humans to augment humans and to replace them basically. Definitely. If I hear you're right, you're hopeful that they are net societal impact is positive.
Start: 0:02:21., End: 0:02:36., Text:  But it really depends on conscious choices we are going to make about it. Yes. And take ownership of its deployment and don't just say this is in the hands of experts or companies or businesses to decide how AI should be deployed.
Start: 0:02:36., End: 0:02:44., Text:  We as a society should be vigilant and have an opinion about it should be thinking about this. That's your position basically.
Start: 0:02:45., End: 0:02:53., Text:  Yes. And I also think that is happened before. So I think we have very good parallels in history where we had major technical revolutions that started out as
Start: 0:02:54., End: 0:03:04., Text:  private projects for a few people. And then later we regulated the effects like for the printing press it was very suddenly became very easy to spread all kinds of propaganda.
Start: 0:03:05., End: 0:03:22., Text:  And we still that we can we can regulate it. We can we can really get process industrial revolution. We we change society accordingly. Right. So we really adapted to work together with society to create a better society. And so I think that
Start: 0:03:22., End: 0:03:36., Text:  Yeah. So so the time to take public ownership of of these new technologies is also here to an into a Spotify radio for brain port or radio podcasts that I see you.
